## The improvement of gain calibration solution of the MWA ultra-low frequency observation data using winsorized statistics

This repository used for documenting all of the python code for the research. 

#### Abstract

The hyperfine structure of the 21 cm line from neutral hydrogen, observed at redshifts between 13 and 17 (frequency range of 75–100 MHz), provides insight into the evolution of neutral hydrogen during the transition from X-ray heating to reionization. However, these observations are impacted by foreground contaminants and radio frequency interference (RFI), which degrade the performance of calibration software.
In this study, we employed the newly developed calibration software, Hyperdrive, for the Murchison Widefield Array (MWA) data to explore a novel approach to RFI contamination detection in gain calibration solutions. Using a point-source-like RFI model, we determined that the real component of the gain calibration solution, with a winsorized z-score below $-5\sigma$, is the most effective RFI identifier. Furthermore, with the implementation of the observation data, these outlier locations were subsequently flagged in the raw visibility data across all baselines, supplementing AOFlagger's existing flags. This method resulted in an additional $\sim0.92\%$ of flagged data.
Following recalibration of the updated dataset, we observed a $4.6\%$ reduction in the standard deviation ($\sigma$) of the gain calibration solutions, with the mean value remaining unchanged. Furthermore, the 2D power spectrum at $k_{||} > 0.2$ exhibited significant improvement, with undesired excess power reduced by approximately $\sim13.76\%$, and the power spectrum variance decreased by $\sim36.14\%$. Similar improvements were noted in the 1D power spectrum, where the before/after ratio at $k_{||} > 0.2$ was $1.45 \pm 0.14$, demonstrating the effectiveness of winsorizing as an additional RFI detection strategy.
